# 2025-03-07_对许多中国人来说，他们看到了一场美国“文革” (2025_3_7 07：34：03)



## 1. The Chinese can relate to what Americans are `going through` while the U.S. is in upheaval.

As the United States grapples with the `upheaval` unleashed by the Trump administration, many Chinese people are finding they can relate to what many Americans are going through.


## 2. The young aides sent by Elon Musk are `reminiscent of` the Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution.

They are saying it feels something like the Cultural Revolution, the period known as “the decade of turmoil.” The `young aides` Elon Musk has sent to dismantle the U.S. government reminded some Chinese of the Red Guards whom Mao Zedong enlisted to destroy the bureaucracy at the peak of the Cultural Revolution. Upon hearing President Trump’s `musing` about serving a third term, they joked that China’s leader, Xi Jinping, must be saying, “I know how to do it” — he `secured` one in 2022 by engineering a `constitutional change`.


## 3. The U.S. provided significant support to China, expecting it to become more like the U.S., but now `the situation seems to be reversing`.

The United States helped China modernize and expand its economy in the hope that China would become more like America — more `democratic` and more open. Now for some Chinese, the United States is looking more and more like China.


## 4. Wang Jian criticized Mr. Trump, saying that dictatorship is, `at its core`, the pursuit of power.

“Coming from an authoritarian state, we know that dictatorship is not just a system — it is, at its core, the pursuit of power,” Wang Jian, a journalist, wrote in an X post criticizing Mr. Trump. “We also know that the Cultural Revolution was about dismantling `institutions` to expand control.”